# Tips and Tricks for Training FastAI Models (Part 2)

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Shrinking images
Many deep learning models are trained on a specific image size, which necessitates the fine tuning dataset to match. Alternatively, some resolution-independent models exist (such as `resnet18`), however, it is usually desired to limit the input images to a certain size in order to speed up and lower hardware requirements for training and later recognition. The simplest method of this is cropping or "squishing" the image to match a defined size. These are discussed below. Part of this section takes inspriation and information from[^1].

### Cropping
Cropping may be used as an easy method to reduce image size: it doesn't have the downsides of squishing in that it doesn't produce warped images for fine tuning which reduces the accuracy. However, if the input image sizes are wildly different to the desired size cropping will produce an unsatisfactory result. Further, it causes information near the edge of the image to be lost which can be detrimental to accuracy with certain datasets.

### Squishing
Squishing seems to be the most common "default" image fitting method. It has the advantage over cropping that no information is lost, however, it produces warped images so the model will have to "learn to recognise warped and normal images" which will reduce accuracy, especially with small datasets. A desireable alternative is scale and letterboxing as described below.

### Scale and letterbox
The most desired image fitting method is probably scale and letterboxing. This will produce images with black bars (zero padded) to be used for fine tuning, however, it doesn't have the downsides of cropping or squishing and will often produce better results.

## Test time augmentation
TTA or test time augmentation can be used to automatically apply certain transformations to the incoming data such as:[^1]
 - Altering brightness
 - Flipping
 - Scaling (zooming)
 - Slight rotation
 - Warping

TTA can either be used to give a rather uniform dataset more variation to produce a more widely applicable model, or as an alternative to the image fitting techniques described above.


[^1]: [FastAI on test time augmentation](https://nbviewer.org/github/fastai/fastbook/blob/master/07_sizing_and_tta.ipynb#Test-Time-Augmentation)
